solana-agents/code-generation/README.md, before:

# 🤖 Solana Trading Agent Code Generation API

## Overview

This API provides intelligent code generation capabilities for Solana-based trading agents. It automatically detects trading patterns and generates complete baseline functions that can handle immediate execution, scheduled trading (DCA), price monitoring, Twitter triggers, and hybrid strategies.

## Features

- **Intelligent Pattern Detection**: Automatically determines execution type from user prompts
- **Complete Code Generation**: Generates full baseline functions, not just snippets
- **Multi-Strategy Support**: Handles immediate, scheduled, event-driven, and hybrid trading strategies
- **Comprehensive Validation**: Syntax checking, linting, and AI-powered guardrails
- **Jupiter Integration**: Full support for Solana token swaps via Jupiter
- **Price & Market Data**: Real-time price monitoring and market data integration
- **Twitter Integration**: Twitter-based trading triggers with keyword filtering
- **Scheduling System**: Advanced scheduling for DCA and time-based strategies

## Architecture

```
User Prompt → Pattern Detection → Code Generation → Validation → Guardrails → Complete Baseline Function
```

### Components

- **`variables.py`**: Contains all constants, API documentation, templates, and prompts
- **`coder.py`**: Intelligent code generation and validation logic
- **`prompt.py`**: Prompt evaluation and improvement system
- **`api.py`**: FastAPI server with REST endpoints

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- OpenAI API key
- Access to Solana mainnet

### Installation

1. Navigate to the code-generation directory:

```bash
cd solana-agents/code-generation
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Create a `.env` file with your OpenAI API key:

```bash
echo "OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here" > .env
```

### Running the API

```bash
python api.py
```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:8000`

## API Endpoints

### Health Check

```http
GET /
```

Returns basic health status and blockchain information.

### Code Generation

```http
POST /code
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "prompt": "Create a DCA bot that buys 10 USDC worth of SOL every day at 9 AM UTC",
  "history": []
}
```

Generates a complete baseline function for the trading strategy.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "code": "export async function baselineFunction(ownerAddress, config = {}) { ... }",
  "executionType": "scheduled",
  "description": "Daily DCA of 10 USDC into SOL at 9 AM UTC",
  "monitoringInterval": null,
  "completeFunction": "..."
}
```

### Prompt Evaluation

```http
POST /prompt
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "prompt": "Buy SOL when price drops below $100",
  "history": []
}
```

Evaluates and provides improvement suggestions for trading prompts.

### Get Popular Tokens

```http
GET /tokens
```

Returns popular Solana tokens with mint addresses and metadata.

### Get Templates

```http
GET /templates
```

Returns available baseline function templates and their descriptions.

### Get Examples

```http
GET /examples
```

Returns example prompts and their expected outputs.

### API Status

```http
GET /status
```

Returns detailed API status and supported operations.

## Intelligent Execution Patterns

The system automatically detects and implements the appropriate execution pattern:

### 1. Immediate Execution
**Triggers:** "swap now", "buy immediately", "transfer"
**Behavior:** Executes immediately after wallet setup and balance check

**Example:**
```
"Swap 1 SOL to USDC now"
```

### 2. Scheduled Execution (DCA)
**Triggers:** "daily", "weekly", "monthly", "every X hours", "at 9 AM"
**Behavior:** Uses scheduling system for time-based recurring operations

**Examples:**
```
"Buy 10 USDC worth of SOL every day at 9 AM UTC"
"DCA 0.1 SOL into BTC weekly"
```

### 3. Event-Driven Monitoring (1-minute intervals)
**Triggers:** "when price", "above", "below", "tweets", "@username"
**Behavior:** Monitors conditions every 60 seconds and executes when met

**Examples:**
```
"Buy 0.01 SOL worth of BTC when SOL price goes above $150"
"Swap 1 USDC to SOL when @elonmusk tweets about crypto"
```

### 4. Hybrid Strategies
**Triggers:** Multiple conditions combined
**Behavior:** Combines scheduling with event monitoring

**Examples:**
```
"DCA 5 USDC into SOL daily, but only when SOL is below $120"
```

## Supported Operations

### Token Operations
- **Token Swaps**: Jupiter-powered swaps between any Solana tokens
- **Token Transfers**: Native SOL and SPL token transfers
- **Balance Checking**: Real-time wallet balance monitoring

### Market Data
- **Price Monitoring**: Real-time price feeds via Mobula API
- **Market Data**: Comprehensive market statistics and trends
- **Price Conditions**: Automated price threshold monitoring

### Social Integration
- **Twitter Monitoring**: Monitor Twitter accounts for new tweets
- **Keyword Filtering**: Filter tweets by specific keywords
- **Real-time Alerts**: Instant notifications for social triggers

### Scheduling
- **Interval Scheduling**: Execute at regular intervals
- **Time-based Scheduling**: Execute at specific times
- **Timezone Support**: Full timezone support for global users

## Code Generation Process

1. **Prompt Analysis**: Parse user requirements and identify execution pattern
2. **Pattern Detection**: Automatically determine immediate, scheduled, or event-driven
3. **Configuration Generation**: Create appropriate configuration objects
4. **Code Generation**: Generate complete baseline function using OpenAI
5. **Syntax Validation**: Check for JavaScript syntax errors using esprima
6. **Linting**: Perform code quality checks and common error detection
7. **Guardrails**: AI-powered code correction and refinement
8. **Final Output**: Return validated and corrected complete function

## Generated Function Structure

All generated functions follow this structure:

```javascript
export async function baselineFunction(ownerAddress, config = {}) {
    // Configuration extraction
    const { fromToken, toToken, amount, executionType, ... } = config;
    
    // Wallet initialization
    const wallet = await getOrCreateWallet(ownerAddress);
    await waitForBalance(wallet.walletAddress, 0.005);
    
    // Execution pattern handling
    switch (executionType) {
        case 'immediate':
            return await handleImmediateExecution(ownerAddress, wallet, config);
        case 'scheduled':
            return await handleScheduledExecution(ownerAddress, wallet, config);
        case 'price_monitoring':
            return await handlePriceMonitoring(ownerAddress, wallet, config);
        case 'twitter_trigger':
            return await handleTwitterTrigger(ownerAddress, wallet, config);
    }
}
```

## Error Handling

The API includes comprehensive error handling:

- **Syntax Errors**: Automatic detection and correction using esprima
- **Lint Errors**: Code quality checks and best practice enforcement
- **API Errors**: Graceful handling of external API failures
- **Validation Errors**: Input validation and sanitization
- **Runtime Errors**: Comprehensive try-catch blocks in generated code

## Usage Examples

### Simple Swap
```json
{
  "prompt": "Swap 1 SOL to USDC immediately"
}
```

**Generated:** Immediate execution function with balance checking and error handling.

### DCA Strategy
```json
{
  "prompt": "Buy 10 USDC worth of SOL every day at 9 AM UTC"
}
```

**Generated:** Scheduled execution function with daily timer at specific UTC time.

### Price Monitoring
```json
{
  "prompt": "Buy 0.01 SOL worth of BTC when SOL price goes above $150"
}
```

**Generated:** Price monitoring function that checks SOL price every 60 seconds.

### Twitter Trigger
```json
{
  "prompt": "Swap 5 USDC to SOL when @elonmusk tweets about Solana"
}
```

**Generated:** Twitter monitoring function that checks for new tweets every 60 seconds.

### Complex Strategy
```json
{
  "prompt": "DCA 20 USDC into BTC weekly, but only execute if BTC is below $45000"
}
```

**Generated:** Hybrid function combining weekly scheduling with price conditions.

## Development

### Adding New Execution Patterns

1. Update `INTELLIGENT EXECUTION PATTERNS` in `variables.py`
2. Add pattern detection keywords to `AUTOMATIC PATTERN DETECTION`
3. Implement handler function in the unified baseline template
4. Update validation logic in `coder.py`

### Extending Token Support

The system uses Jupiter's token list for comprehensive Solana token support. Popular tokens are cached in `POPULAR_TOKENS` for quick reference.

### Adding New APIs

1. Add API documentation to `HELPER_FUNCTIONS` in `variables.py`
2. Include usage examples in `TRANSACTIONS_USAGE`
3. Update the coder prompt with new capabilities
4. Test with various prompt scenarios

## Security Considerations

- API keys are stored in environment variables
- No sensitive data is logged
- Input validation on all endpoints
- Rate limiting should be implemented in production
- Generated code includes comprehensive error handling

## Production Deployment

For production deployment:

1. Use a production WSGI server (Gunicorn)
2. Implement proper logging and monitoring
3. Add rate limiting and authentication
4. Use environment-specific configuration
5. Set up health checks and alerting
6. Configure proper CORS policies

## Testing

Run the test suite:

```bash
python test_api.py
```

This will test all endpoints and validate the code generation pipeline.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is part of the Xade AI trading agent platform.

## Support

For support and questions, please refer to the main project documentation or create an issue in the repository.

Commit message:

Add Solana custom bot support and update docs
Introduces documentation and code changes for AI-powered custom trading bots in the Solana agents suite. Updates README files to describe new features, architecture, and usage for custom bots, including natural language code generation and hybrid execution patterns. Refactors deploy.js to use the code generation API for custom bot deployment, replacing sample code logic.

solana-agents/code-generation/README.md, after:

# 🤖 Solana Trading Agent Code Generation API

## Overview

This API provides intelligent code generation capabilities for Solana-based trading agents. It automatically detects trading patterns and generates complete baseline functions that can handle immediate execution, scheduled trading (DCA), price monitoring, Twitter triggers, and hybrid strategies. The generated code is integrated with the deployer service to create fully functional custom trading bots from natural language descriptions.

## Features

- **Intelligent Pattern Detection**: Automatically determines execution type from user prompts
- **Complete Code Generation**: Generates full baseline functions, not just snippets
- **Multi-Strategy Support**: Handles immediate, scheduled, event-driven, and hybrid trading strategies
- **Comprehensive Validation**: Syntax checking, linting, and AI-powered guardrails
- **Jupiter Integration**: Full support for Solana token swaps via Jupiter
- **Price & Market Data**: Real-time price monitoring and market data integration
- **Twitter Integration**: Twitter-based trading triggers with keyword filtering
- **Scheduling System**: Advanced scheduling for DCA and time-based strategies

## Architecture

### Code Generation Flow
```
User Prompt → Pattern Detection → Code Generation → Validation → Guardrails → Complete Baseline Function
```

### Integration with Deployer
```
Deployer Service → Code Generation API → Generated Function → Baseline.js Integration → Container Deployment
```

The code generation API is called by the deployer service during custom bot deployment. The generated baseline function is automatically integrated into the baseline.js file and deployed as a self-contained trading bot.

### Components

- **`variables.py`**: Contains all constants, API documentation, templates, and prompts
- **`coder.py`**: Intelligent code generation and validation logic
- **`prompt.py`**: Prompt evaluation and improvement system
- **`api.py`**: FastAPI server with REST endpoints

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- OpenAI API key
- Access to Solana mainnet

### Installation

1. Navigate to the code-generation directory:

```bash
cd solana-agents/code-generation
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Create a `.env` file with your OpenAI API key:

```bash
echo "OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here" > .env
```

### Running the API

```bash
python api.py
```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:8000`

## API Endpoints

### Health Check

```http
GET /
```

Returns basic health status and blockchain information.

### Code Generation

```http
POST /code
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "prompt": "Create a DCA bot that buys 10 USDC worth of SOL every day at 9 AM UTC",
  "history": []
}
```

Generates a complete baseline function for the trading strategy.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "code": "export async function baselineFunction(ownerAddress, config = {}) { ... }",
  "executionType": "scheduled",
  "description": "Daily DCA of 10 USDC into SOL at 9 AM UTC",
  "monitoringInterval": null,
  "completeFunction": "..."
}
```

### Prompt Evaluation

```http
POST /prompt
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "prompt": "Buy SOL when price drops below $100",
  "history": []
}
```

Evaluates and provides improvement suggestions for trading prompts.

### Get Popular Tokens

```http
GET /tokens
```

Returns popular Solana tokens with mint addresses and metadata.

### Get Templates

```http
GET /templates
```

Returns available baseline function templates and their descriptions.

### Get Examples

```http
GET /examples
```

Returns example prompts and their expected outputs.

### API Status

```http
GET /status
```

Returns detailed API status and supported operations.

## Intelligent Execution Patterns

The system automatically detects and implements the appropriate execution pattern:

### 1. Immediate Execution
**Triggers:** "swap now", "buy immediately", "transfer"
**Behavior:** Executes immediately after wallet setup and balance check

**Example:**
```
"Swap 1 SOL to USDC now"
```

### 2. Scheduled Execution (DCA)
**Triggers:** "daily", "weekly", "monthly", "every X hours", "at 9 AM"
**Behavior:** Uses scheduling system for time-based recurring operations

**Examples:**
```
"Buy 10 USDC worth of SOL every day at 9 AM UTC"
"DCA 0.1 SOL into BTC weekly"
```

### 3. Event-Driven Monitoring (1-minute intervals)
**Triggers:** "when price", "above", "below", "tweets", "@username"
**Behavior:** Monitors conditions every 60 seconds and executes when met

**Examples:**
```
"Buy 0.01 SOL worth of BTC when SOL price goes above $150"
"Swap 1 USDC to SOL when @elonmusk tweets about crypto"
```

### 4. Hybrid Strategies
**Triggers:** Multiple conditions combined
**Behavior:** Combines scheduling with event monitoring

**Examples:**
```
"DCA 5 USDC into SOL daily, but only when SOL is below $120"
```

## Supported Operations

### Token Operations
- **Token Swaps**: Jupiter-powered swaps between any Solana tokens
- **Token Transfers**: Native SOL and SPL token transfers
- **Balance Checking**: Real-time wallet balance monitoring

### Market Data
- **Price Monitoring**: Real-time price feeds via Mobula API
- **Market Data**: Comprehensive market statistics and trends
- **Price Conditions**: Automated price threshold monitoring

### Social Integration
- **Twitter Monitoring**: Monitor Twitter accounts for new tweets
- **Keyword Filtering**: Filter tweets by specific keywords
- **Real-time Alerts**: Instant notifications for social triggers

### Scheduling
- **Interval Scheduling**: Execute at regular intervals
- **Time-based Scheduling**: Execute at specific times
- **Timezone Support**: Full timezone support for global users

## Code Generation Process

1. **Prompt Analysis**: Parse user requirements and identify execution pattern
2. **Pattern Detection**: Automatically determine immediate, scheduled, or event-driven
3. **Configuration Generation**: Create appropriate configuration objects
4. **Code Generation**: Generate complete baseline function using OpenAI
5. **Syntax Validation**: Check for JavaScript syntax errors using esprima
6. **Linting**: Perform code quality checks and common error detection
7. **Guardrails**: AI-powered code correction and refinement
8. **Final Output**: Return validated and corrected complete function

## Generated Function Structure

All generated functions follow this structure:

```javascript
export async function baselineFunction(ownerAddress, config = {}) {
    // Configuration extraction
    const { fromToken, toToken, amount, executionType, ... } = config;
    
    // Wallet initialization
    const wallet = await getOrCreateWallet(ownerAddress);
    await waitForBalance(wallet.walletAddress, 0.005);
    
    // Execution pattern handling
    switch (executionType) {
        case 'immediate':
            return await handleImmediateExecution(ownerAddress, wallet, config);
        case 'scheduled':
            return await handleScheduledExecution(ownerAddress, wallet, config);
        case 'price_monitoring':
            return await handlePriceMonitoring(ownerAddress, wallet, config);
        case 'twitter_trigger':
            return await handleTwitterTrigger(ownerAddress, wallet, config);
    }
}
```

## Error Handling

The API includes comprehensive error handling:

- **Syntax Errors**: Automatic detection and correction using esprima
- **Lint Errors**: Code quality checks and best practice enforcement
- **API Errors**: Graceful handling of external API failures
- **Validation Errors**: Input validation and sanitization
- **Runtime Errors**: Comprehensive try-catch blocks in generated code

## Usage Examples

### Simple Swap
```json
{
  "prompt": "Swap 1 SOL to USDC immediately"
}
```

**Generated:** Immediate execution function with balance checking and error handling.

### DCA Strategy
```json
{
  "prompt": "Buy 10 USDC worth of SOL every day at 9 AM UTC"
}
```

**Generated:** Scheduled execution function with daily timer at specific UTC time.

### Price Monitoring
```json
{
  "prompt": "Buy 0.01 SOL worth of BTC when SOL price goes above $150"
}
```

**Generated:** Price monitoring function that checks SOL price every 60 seconds.

### Twitter Trigger
```json
{
  "prompt": "Swap 5 USDC to SOL when @elonmusk tweets about Solana"
}
```

**Generated:** Twitter monitoring function that checks for new tweets every 60 seconds.

### Complex Strategy
```json
{
  "prompt": "DCA 20 USDC into BTC weekly, but only execute if BTC is below $45000"
}
```

**Generated:** Hybrid function combining weekly scheduling with price conditions.

## Development

### Adding New Execution Patterns

1. Update `INTELLIGENT EXECUTION PATTERNS` in `variables.py`
2. Add pattern detection keywords to `AUTOMATIC PATTERN DETECTION`
3. Implement handler function in the unified baseline template
4. Update validation logic in `coder.py`

### Extending Token Support

The system uses Jupiter's token list for comprehensive Solana token support. Popular tokens are cached in `POPULAR_TOKENS` for quick reference.

### Adding New APIs

1. Add API documentation to `HELPER_FUNCTIONS` in `variables.py`
2. Include usage examples in `TRANSACTIONS_USAGE`
3. Update the coder prompt with new capabilities
4. Test with various prompt scenarios

## Security Considerations

- API keys are stored in environment variables
- No sensitive data is logged
- Input validation on all endpoints
- Rate limiting should be implemented in production
- Generated code includes comprehensive error handling

## Production Deployment

For production deployment:

1. Use a production WSGI server (Gunicorn)
2. Implement proper logging and monitoring
3. Add rate limiting and authentication
4. Use environment-specific configuration
5. Set up health checks and alerting
6. Configure proper CORS policies

## Testing

Run the test suite:

```bash
python test_api.py
```

This will test all endpoints and validate the code generation pipeline.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is part of the Xade AI trading agent platform.

## Support

For support and questions, please refer to the main project documentation or create an issue in the repository.
