code-generation/README.md, before:

# 🤖 EVM Trading Agent Code Generation API

## Overview

This API provides code generation capabilities for EVM-based trading agents, specifically designed for Polygon mainnet (Chain ID 137). It follows the same pattern as the Kadena trading agent system but is adapted for EVM blockchains.

## Features

- **Prompt Evaluation**: Evaluate and improve trading agent prompts
- **Code Generation**: Generate JavaScript code for trading agents
- **Token Support**: Full support for Polygon tokens using the existing `tokens.json`
- **Syntax Checking**: Automatic JavaScript syntax validation
- **Code Guardrails**: AI-powered code correction and refinement
- **LiFi Integration**: Cross-chain and same-chain swap capabilities

## Architecture

```
User Request → Prompt Evaluation → Code Generation → Syntax Check → Guardrails → Final Code
```

### Components

- **`variables.py`**: Contains all constants, API documentation, and baseline templates
- **`prompt.py`**: Handles prompt evaluation and improvement
- **`coder.py`**: Generates and validates JavaScript code
- **`api.py`**: FastAPI server with REST endpoints

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- OpenAI API key
- Access to the baseline `tokens.json` file

### Installation

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the `evm-codegen` directory:

```bash
cd evm-codegen
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Create a `.env` file with your OpenAI API key:

```bash
echo "OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here" > .env
```

4. Ensure the `baseline/tokens.json` file is accessible (should be in the parent directory)

### Running the API

```bash
python api.py
```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:8000`

## API Endpoints

### Health Check

```http
GET /
```

Returns basic health status and blockchain information.

### Prompt Evaluation

```http
POST /prompt
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "prompt": "Create a DCA agent that buys POL every day",
  "history": []
}
```

Evaluates a trading agent prompt and provides improvement suggestions.

### Code Generation

```http
POST /code
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "prompt": "Create a DCA agent that buys POL every day",
  "history": []
}
```

Generates JavaScript code for the trading agent.

### Get Tokens

```http
GET /tokens
```

Returns available tokens for EVM blockchains.

### API Status

```http
GET /status
```

Returns detailed API status and supported operations.

## Usage Examples

### Example 1: Simple DCA Agent

**Prompt:**

```
Create a DCA (Dollar Cost Averaging) agent that buys 10 USDC.e worth of POL every day at 9 AM UTC.
```

**Generated Code:**

```javascript
async function baselineFunction() {
  try {
    // 1. Create or get wallet
    console.log("Creating wallet...");
    const wallet = await createWallet();
    console.log("Wallet created successfully:", wallet.address);

    // 2. Load current balances
    const balances = await getBalances(wallet.address);
    console.log("Current balances:", balances);

    // 3. Create transaction
    console.log("Creating transaction...");

    // ENTER AI CODE HERE
    const transaction = await swap({
      tokenInAddress: "0x2791Bca1f2de4661ED88A30C99A7a9449Aa84174", // USDC.e
      tokenOutAddress: "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000", // POL
      account: wallet.address,
      amountIn: "10.0",
      chainId: "137",
    });
    // END AI CODE

    console.log("Transaction created:", transaction);
    // ... rest of the function
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error in baseline function:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

### Example 2: Price Monitoring Agent

**Prompt:**

```
Create an agent that monitors POL price and sells 50% of holdings if price drops below $0.8.
```

## Token Support

The system uses the existing `baseline/tokens.json` file which contains comprehensive token information for Polygon mainnet, including:

- **Native Token**: POL (0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000)
- **Stablecoins**: USDC.e, USDT, DAI
- **Major Tokens**: WETH, WBTC, BNB, SOL
- **DeFi Tokens**: Various DeFi protocol tokens

## Supported Operations

### Token Transfers

- Transfer any token between addresses
- Support for native POL and ERC-20 tokens
- Gas estimation and optimization

### Token Swaps

- Same-chain swaps using LiFi
- Cross-chain swaps (if needed)
- Slippage protection
- Price impact calculation

### Price Quotes

- Real-time price feeds
- Token value calculations
- Market data integration

## Code Generation Process

1. **Prompt Analysis**: Parse user requirements and validate token addresses
2. **Strategy Planning**: Create step-by-step execution plan
3. **Code Generation**: Generate JavaScript code using OpenAI
4. **Syntax Validation**: Check for JavaScript syntax errors
5. **Linting**: Perform basic code quality checks
6. **Guardrails**: AI-powered code correction and refinement
7. **Final Output**: Return validated and corrected code

## Error Handling

The API includes comprehensive error handling:

- **Syntax Errors**: Automatic detection and correction
- **Token Validation**: Verify token addresses and symbols
- **API Errors**: Graceful handling of external API failures
- **Code Quality**: Linting and best practice enforcement

## Development

### Adding New Tokens

Tokens are managed through the `baseline/tokens.json` file. To add new tokens:

1. Add token information to `tokens.json`
2. Include chain ID, address, symbol, name, and decimals
3. The system will automatically recognize new tokens

### Extending Functionality

To add new operations:

1. Update `TRANSACTIONS_CODE` in `variables.py`
2. Add corresponding API documentation
3. Update the coder prompt with new examples
4. Test with the API endpoints

## Security Considerations

- API keys are stored in environment variables
- No sensitive data is logged
- Input validation on all endpoints
- Rate limiting should be implemented in production

## Production Deployment

For production deployment:

1. Use a production WSGI server (Gunicorn)
2. Implement proper logging and monitoring
3. Add rate limiting and authentication
4. Use environment-specific configuration
5. Set up health checks and alerting

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is part of the Xade AI trading agent platform.

Commit message:

Add Solana custom bot support and update docs
Introduces documentation and code changes for AI-powered custom trading bots in the Solana agents suite. Updates README files to describe new features, architecture, and usage for custom bots, including natural language code generation and hybrid execution patterns. Refactors deploy.js to use the code generation API for custom bot deployment, replacing sample code logic.

code-generation/README.md, after:

# 🤖 EVM Trading Agent Code Generation API

> **Note**: This is the EVM version of the code generation system. For the newer Solana implementation with enhanced AI capabilities, see [`solana-agents/code-generation/`](../solana-agents/code-generation/).

## Overview

This API provides code generation capabilities for EVM-based trading agents, specifically designed for Polygon mainnet (Chain ID 137). It follows the same pattern as the Kadena trading agent system but is adapted for EVM blockchains.

## Features

- **Prompt Evaluation**: Evaluate and improve trading agent prompts
- **Code Generation**: Generate JavaScript code for trading agents
- **Token Support**: Full support for Polygon tokens using the existing `tokens.json`
- **Syntax Checking**: Automatic JavaScript syntax validation
- **Code Guardrails**: AI-powered code correction and refinement
- **LiFi Integration**: Cross-chain and same-chain swap capabilities

## Architecture

```
User Request → Prompt Evaluation → Code Generation → Syntax Check → Guardrails → Final Code
```

### Components

- **`variables.py`**: Contains all constants, API documentation, and baseline templates
- **`prompt.py`**: Handles prompt evaluation and improvement
- **`coder.py`**: Generates and validates JavaScript code
- **`api.py`**: FastAPI server with REST endpoints

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- OpenAI API key
- Access to the baseline `tokens.json` file

### Installation

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the `evm-codegen` directory:

```bash
cd evm-codegen
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Create a `.env` file with your OpenAI API key:

```bash
echo "OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here" > .env
```

4. Ensure the `baseline/tokens.json` file is accessible (should be in the parent directory)

### Running the API

```bash
python api.py
```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:8000`

## API Endpoints

### Health Check

```http
GET /
```

Returns basic health status and blockchain information.

### Prompt Evaluation

```http
POST /prompt
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "prompt": "Create a DCA agent that buys POL every day",
  "history": []
}
```

Evaluates a trading agent prompt and provides improvement suggestions.

### Code Generation

```http
POST /code
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "prompt": "Create a DCA agent that buys POL every day",
  "history": []
}
```

Generates JavaScript code for the trading agent.

### Get Tokens

```http
GET /tokens
```

Returns available tokens for EVM blockchains.

### API Status

```http
GET /status
```

Returns detailed API status and supported operations.

## Usage Examples

### Example 1: Simple DCA Agent

**Prompt:**

```
Create a DCA (Dollar Cost Averaging) agent that buys 10 USDC.e worth of POL every day at 9 AM UTC.
```

**Generated Code:**

```javascript
async function baselineFunction() {
  try {
    // 1. Create or get wallet
    console.log("Creating wallet...");
    const wallet = await createWallet();
    console.log("Wallet created successfully:", wallet.address);

    // 2. Load current balances
    const balances = await getBalances(wallet.address);
    console.log("Current balances:", balances);

    // 3. Create transaction
    console.log("Creating transaction...");

    // ENTER AI CODE HERE
    const transaction = await swap({
      tokenInAddress: "0x2791Bca1f2de4661ED88A30C99A7a9449Aa84174", // USDC.e
      tokenOutAddress: "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000", // POL
      account: wallet.address,
      amountIn: "10.0",
      chainId: "137",
    });
    // END AI CODE

    console.log("Transaction created:", transaction);
    // ... rest of the function
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error in baseline function:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

### Example 2: Price Monitoring Agent

**Prompt:**

```
Create an agent that monitors POL price and sells 50% of holdings if price drops below $0.8.
```

## Token Support

The system uses the existing `baseline/tokens.json` file which contains comprehensive token information for Polygon mainnet, including:

- **Native Token**: POL (0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000)
- **Stablecoins**: USDC.e, USDT, DAI
- **Major Tokens**: WETH, WBTC, BNB, SOL
- **DeFi Tokens**: Various DeFi protocol tokens

## Supported Operations

### Token Transfers

- Transfer any token between addresses
- Support for native POL and ERC-20 tokens
- Gas estimation and optimization

### Token Swaps

- Same-chain swaps using LiFi
- Cross-chain swaps (if needed)
- Slippage protection
- Price impact calculation

### Price Quotes

- Real-time price feeds
- Token value calculations
- Market data integration

## Code Generation Process

1. **Prompt Analysis**: Parse user requirements and validate token addresses
2. **Strategy Planning**: Create step-by-step execution plan
3. **Code Generation**: Generate JavaScript code using OpenAI
4. **Syntax Validation**: Check for JavaScript syntax errors
5. **Linting**: Perform basic code quality checks
6. **Guardrails**: AI-powered code correction and refinement
7. **Final Output**: Return validated and corrected code

## Error Handling

The API includes comprehensive error handling:

- **Syntax Errors**: Automatic detection and correction
- **Token Validation**: Verify token addresses and symbols
- **API Errors**: Graceful handling of external API failures
- **Code Quality**: Linting and best practice enforcement

## Development

### Adding New Tokens

Tokens are managed through the `baseline/tokens.json` file. To add new tokens:

1. Add token information to `tokens.json`
2. Include chain ID, address, symbol, name, and decimals
3. The system will automatically recognize new tokens

### Extending Functionality

To add new operations:

1. Update `TRANSACTIONS_CODE` in `variables.py`
2. Add corresponding API documentation
3. Update the coder prompt with new examples
4. Test with the API endpoints

## Security Considerations

- API keys are stored in environment variables
- No sensitive data is logged
- Input validation on all endpoints
- Rate limiting should be implemented in production

## Production Deployment

For production deployment:

1. Use a production WSGI server (Gunicorn)
2. Implement proper logging and monitoring
3. Add rate limiting and authentication
4. Use environment-specific configuration
5. Set up health checks and alerting

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is part of the Xade AI trading agent platform.
